My name is Minhal Enam. I was born and raised in Saudi Arabia. I am 22 years old. I am an Interactive Media student in Brock University. I love film & photography.
As I read through Ramsay’s “Reading Machines”, he states about Algorithmic criticism which means the way to analyze text using computational method and judging the way it should be used. In last ten years we have seen tremendous growth in Digital Humanity, from statistical computing to artificial intelligence, from scientific analysis to interpretation tools. Actually using the idea of revamping of text, it helps us to find more data on any piece of artifact. Like Ramsay said, “Algorithmic criticism is challenging because they often demand an interpretation that transcends the quantitative realm; now, most radically, we see them falsify existing theoretical explanations, and ask for a theory, not so much of the novel, but of whole family of novelistic forms.” 
Ramsay intends to transform paper-based artifacts into more quantized form such as more digitalized. His argument is solidified by embracing computational method to unable the capacity of subjective engagement for liberating the potentialities of meaning. There are problems to such criticisms, it misses the “redemptive worldview” according to (Burrows & Craig 64). Ramsay’s respond is that the criticism is not evaluated in terms of what the data allows, but in terms of the nature and depth of the discussions that result. There are more ways to expand interpretation models rather than just looking at one mathematical language processing method. However, Ramsay touches on the concept of deformation as a set of algorithmic protocols, very similar to Jerome McGann’s (2011) perspective “Deformance and interpretation”. To provide cross-references, reading back-wards, and alternate arrangements to better determine what the corpus is. In addition to, extending from algorithmic criticism to deformance interpretation, there is not point to stop there. Taking the rhetorical approach to the existing problems in Digital Humanity will embrace invention and innovation. This approach compels to ask the question, “In what ways do secondary texts and tertiary responses influence a reinvention of a primary text?”
The rhetorical approach demonstrates one corpus, the relationship between primary texts, secondary scholarship, and tertiary commentary. Understanding the connection of an author’s work and how the ideas are passed on is relevant to study and investigate the original content of the author. It also offers a vantage point to visualize how the author’s work is taken up over time. The number of citations used most frequently and analyzing the translations that start the conversation. This approach will have greater impact throughout digital humanities field by contributing how we put our primary text in conversations with its responses. 	Interpretation of text is simply a blend of visualization, mathematics of language, and history. The reason Ramsay intrigued my curiosity is the ability to see a text in different forms and understand every process of performativity to reach a dynamic conclusion. Even though seeing all the advancement in technology in the recent years, there are many avenues still to be discovered in DH. Another important function of the rhetorical approach is dynamic visualization for interactions between the texts. Users are more inclined to an image than words. Simple visualizations like word clouds, word trees, and network graphs would interact with users in a different manner. Furthermore, I feel the interpretation of the corpus should not only be limited to Western data. The wider focus should also concern Eastern & Western data both. Ramsay is missing to see how Eastern scholars are dissecting the text and maybe with cross referencing, will be able to find new ways to reinvent interpretation methods. According to chapters by Ballentine and Stolley, Ballentine emphasizes that true understanding and engagement with media comes with new kind of literacy. Having an overall perspectives on interpretation will bring new possibilities and answers to the Scholars in DH. 
Ramsay also recognizes the differences between scientific and humanistic research which science needs interpretation, rhetoric, social construction, and politics. Humanistic respects human actions and it does not have any one answer, it ensures to keep the discussion going. Both science and humanities fields seek to identify patterns but, using computational tools simply provide them with greater powers of observation, which greater formulations can be conducted. The computational tools are becoming more complex such as, text analysis method using Artificial Intelligence to seek for more visual insights. AI and deformation of text could push collaborative interpretation and enhance scholarly debate discussions. To work as a group to find more results and alternatives. “To make intelligent choices about the appropriate place of textual analysis software in their work.” (Ridolfo and Hart-Davidson 2015. 179).  Below there is an example of text analysis tool of Ramsay’s Reading;

 
Text analysis tool shows the trend in words and how Ramsay used certain words frequently. Finally, Ramsay’s proposal for the use of computational tools do enable a deformation of the text that could not be realistically conducted any other way and textual analysis tools provide a means of reading and performing the text to quickly arrive at quantitatively generated patterns and insights.

Works Cited
Ramsay, S. (2012). Reading machines: toward an algorithmic criticism. Urbana, IL: University of Illinois Press.
Ridolfo, J., & Hart-Davidson, W. (2015). Rhetoric and the Digital Humanities.

